Application assignment rob (#3331)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-04-11-CML-runners-saving-models-1.md

in machine learning projects. This way we can define a pipeline to train a model
and keep track of various versions. Although we could do so directly in our
CI/CD pipeline (e.g. GitHub Workflows), the runners used for this generally
don’t have a lot of processing power. Therefore it makes more sense to provision
a dedicated runner that is tailored to our computing needs.

At the end of this guide we will have set up a CML workflow that does the
following on a daily basis:

1. Provision an Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 instance
1. Train the model
1. Save the model and its metrics to a GitHub repository
1. Terminate the AWS EC2 instance

In a follow-up post we will expand upon this by using [DVC](https://dvc.org/) to
designate a remote storage for our resulting models. But let's focus on CML
first!

All files needed for this guide can be found in
[this repository](https://github.com/iterative/example_model_export_cml).

<admon type="info">

This guide can be followed on its own, but also as an extension to this
[example in the docs](https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners).

</admon>

<admon type="tip">

We wil be using GitHub for our CI/CD and AWS for our computing resources. With

> slight modifications, however, you can use Gitlab and Google Cloud or Microsoft
> Azure respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slight modifications, however, you can use
[GitLab CI/CD](https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners?tab=GitLab#allocating-cloud-compute-resources-with-cml),
[Google Cloud](https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners?tab=GCP#cloud-compute-resource-credentials)
or
[Microsoft
Azure](https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners?tab=Azure#cloud-compute-resource-credentials).
```

</admon>

# Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have the following things set up:

1. You have
   [created an AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/)
   (free tier suffices)
2. You have
   [created a `PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)

> 3. You have
>    [created an `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` on AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You have
   [created an `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` on AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-creds)
```

probably best? By comparison the following seem slightly worse:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html
- https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners?tab=AWS#cloud-compute-resource-credentials

WDYT? /CC @iterative/cml

# Plot confusion matrix
disp = plot_confusion_matrix(clf, X_test, y_test, normalize='true',cmap=plt.cm.Blues)
plt.savefig('model/confusion_matrix.png')

# Save the model
joblib.dump(clf, "model/random_forest.joblib")
```

# Train the model on a daily basis

Now that we have a script to train our model and save it as a file, let’s set up
our CI/CD to provision a runner and run the script. We define our workflow in
`cml.yaml` and save it in the `.github/workflows` directory. This way GitHub
will automatically go through the workflow whenever it is triggered. In this
case the triggers are a manual run and the daily schedule.

<admon type="info">

The name of the workflow doesn’t matter, as long as it’s a `.yaml` and located
in the `.github/workflows` directory. You can have multiple workflows in there
as well. You can learn more in the
[documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions)
here.

</admon>

```yaml
name: CML
on: # Here we use two triggers: manually and daily at 08:00
  workflow_dispatch:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 8 * * *'
jobs:
  deploy-runner:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:

>       - uses: iterative/setup-cml@v1
>       - uses: actions/checkout@v2

Reviewer: checkout first - needs to be corrected elsewhere too.

```suggestion
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: iterative/setup-cml@v1
```

      - name: Deploy runner on EC2
        env:
          REPO_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
          AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
          AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
        run: |
          cml runner \
              --cloud=aws \
              --cloud-region=eu-west \
              --cloud-type=t2.micro \

>               --single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              --labels=cml-runner \
              --single
```

  train-model:
    needs: deploy-runner

>     runs-on: [self-hosted]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    runs-on: [self-hosted, cnl-runner]
```

    timeout-minutes: 120 # 2h
    container:

>       image: docker://iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      image: iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1
```

though should we just use `setup-cml` & `setup-python` instead? /CC @iterative/cml

Reviewer 2: Yes, absolutely!

>     container:
>       image: docker://iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1
>     steps:
>       - uses: actions/checkout@v2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v2
        with:
          python-version: '3.x'
      - uses: iterative/setup-cml@v1
```

haven't tested, but should address [last comment](https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3331/files#r846276599)

local machine. You can easily change algorithms, parameters, and input data
right in your text editor, notebook, or terminal. Imagine you have a
long-running model for which you want to detect possible
[drift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concept_drift), however. In that case it
would be beneficial to automatically retrain your model on a regular basis.

In this guide, we will show how you can use
[CML (Continuous Machine Learning)](https://cml.dev/) to do just that. CML is an
open-source library for implementing continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD)
in machine learning projects. This way we can define a pipeline to train a model
and keep track of various versions. Although we could do so directly in our
CI/CD pipeline (e.g. GitHub Workflows), the runners used for this generally
don’t have a lot of processing power. Therefore it makes more sense to provision
a dedicated runner that is tailored to our computing needs.

At the end of this guide we will have set up a CML workflow that does the
following on a daily basis:

1. Provision an Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 instance
1. Train the model
1. Save the model and its metrics to a GitHub repository

> 1. Create a merge request with the new outputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a pull request with the new outputs
```

GH uses "pull", GL uses "merge"

# Training a model and saving it

To kick off, we will adapt `train.py` from the
[CML getting started guide](https://cml.dev/doc/start/github). Here we create a
simple `RandomForestClassifier()` based on some generated data. We then use the
model to make some predictions and plot those predictions in a confusion matrix.

While running the script the model is kept in memory, meaning it is discarded as
soon as the script finishes. In order to save the model for later, we need to
dump it as a binary file. We do so with
[`joblib.dump()`](https://joblib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/joblib.dump.html).
Later we can read the model using
[`joblib.load()`](https://joblib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/joblib.load.html)
when we need to.

<admon type="tip">

You can also use `pickle.dump()` if you prefer.

</admon>

The outputs of `train.py` are:

- `metrics.txt`: a file containing metrics on model performance (in this case
  accuracy)
- `confusion_matrix.png`: a plot showing the classification results of our model
- `random_forest.joblib`: the binary output of the trained model

All of these files are saved to the `model` directory.

```python

> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
> from sklearn.metrics import plot_confusion_matrix
> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
> import json
> import os
> import joblib
> import numpy as np
> 
> # Read in data
> X_train = np.genfromtxt("data/train_features.csv")
> y_train = np.genfromtxt("data/train_labels.csv")
> X_test = np.genfromtxt("data/test_features.csv")
> y_test = np.genfromtxt("data/test_labels.csv")
> 
> # Fit a model
> depth = 5
> clf = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=depth)
> clf.fit(X_train,y_train)
> 
> # Calculate accuracy
> acc = clf.score(X_test, y_test)
> print(acc)
> 
> # Create model folder if it does not yet exist
> if not os.path.exists('model'):
>     os.makedirs('model')
> 
> # Write metrics to file
> with open("model/metrics.txt", 'w+') as outfile:
>         outfile.write("Accuracy: " + str(acc) + "\n")
> 
> # Plot confusion matrix
> disp = plot_confusion_matrix(clf, X_test, y_test, normalize='true',cmap=plt.cm.Blues)
> plt.savefig('model/confusion_matrix.png')
> 
> # Save the model
> joblib.dump(clf, "model/random_forest.joblib")

Reviewer: `black && isort`

```suggestion
import json
import os

import joblib
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
from sklearn.metrics import plot_confusion_matrix

# Read in data
X_train = np.genfromtxt("data/train_features.csv")
y_train = np.genfromtxt("data/train_labels.csv")
X_test = np.genfromtxt("data/test_features.csv")
y_test = np.genfromtxt("data/test_labels.csv")

# Fit a model
depth = 5
clf = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=depth)
clf.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Calculate accuracy
acc = clf.score(X_test, y_test)
print(acc)

# Create model folder if it does not yet exist
if not os.path.exists("model"):
    os.makedirs("model")

# Write metrics to file
with open("model/metrics.txt", "w+") as outfile:
    outfile.write("Accuracy: " + str(acc) + "\n")

# Plot confusion matrix
disp = plot_confusion_matrix(clf, X_test, y_test, normalize="true", cmap=plt.cm.Blues)
plt.savefig("model/confusion_matrix.png")

# Save the model
joblib.dump(clf, "model/random_forest.joblib")
```

```

# Train the model on a daily basis

Now that we have a script to train our model and save it as a file, let’s set up
our CI/CD to provision a runner and run the script. We define our workflow in
`cml.yaml` and save it in the `.github/workflows` directory. This way GitHub
will automatically go through the workflow whenever it is triggered. In this

> case the triggers are a manual run and the daily schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case the triggers are on (manual) request as well as daily (automatic) schedule.
```

  workflow_dispatch:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 8 * * *'
jobs:
  deploy-runner:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: iterative/setup-cml@v1
      - name: Deploy runner on EC2
        env:
          REPO_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
          AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
          AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
        run: |
          cml runner \
              --cloud=aws \
              --cloud-region=eu-west \
              --cloud-type=t2.micro \
              --labels=cml-runner \
              --single
  train-model:
    needs: deploy-runner
    runs-on: [self-hosted, cml-runner]
    timeout-minutes: 120 # 2h
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v2
        with:
          python-version: '3.x'
      - uses: iterative/setup-cml@v1
      - name: Train model
        env:
          REPO_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          cml ci
          pip install -r requirements.txt
          python get_data.py
          python train.py
```

<admon type="warn">

> In this example we are using a `t2.micro` AWS EC2 instance. At the time of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we are using a `t2.micro` [AWS EC2 instance](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/). At the time of
```

writing this is included in the AWS free tier. Make sure that you qualify for
this free usage to prevent unexpected spending. When you specify a bulkier
<code>cloud-type</code>, your expenses will rise.

</admon>

The workflow we defined first
[provisions a runner](https://cml.dev/doc/ref/runner) on AWS, and then uses that
runner to train the model. After completing the training job, CML automatically
terminates the runner to prevent you from incurring further costs. Once the
runner is terminated, however, the model is lost along with it. Let's see how we
can save our model in the next step!

# Export the model to our Git repository

CML allows us to export the model from our runner to our Git repository. Let's
extend the training stage of our workflow by pushing `random_forest.joblib` to a

> new experiment branch and creating a merge request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new experiment branch and creating a pull request.
```
